---
layout: single
title: '<span class="Articles"> XSS noob to wise - /Articles</span>'
excerpt: "XSS  are important if you want to try your lucky in Bugbounty or pentesting Web Labs, I highly recommend you to always try them in pages that you are searching for vulnerabilities "
date: 2023-04-29
header:

  teaser_home_page: true



categories:

  - article
tags:  
  - wordpress
  - privilege-escalation
  - web
  - php
  - reverse-shell
toc: true
toc_label: "Content"
toc_sticky: true
show_time: true
---


XSS are important if you want to try your lucky in Bugbounty or pentesting Web Labs, I highly recommend you to always try them in pages that you are searching for vulnerabilities 

**We will see all this from the perspective of someone who is trying to explain it to his grandma or someone who does not know anything about cyberSec the reason why is because my tech lead told me that if you don't know how explain it to somone who does not know anything then you don't know how it works.**


## What is XSS?

Grandma, do you know when you visit a website and there's a space where you can write a comment? Well, sometimes, Hackers white hats can use that space to put malicious code on the website. This can make the website do bad things, like stealing personal information from people who visit the website. Some websites can protect themselves against this type of attack, but it's important to be careful about what you write in these spaces and only visit trustworthy websites, grandma, another point to mention is that we learn these atttacks in order to make the company aware of these attacks and prevent them from having these failures in the security of their resources

# 3 types of XSS 

Almost forgot Grandma, do you remember when I told you about hackers who can put malicious code on the websites you visit? Well, one of the tricks they use is called Cross-Site Scripting or XSS in English. There are three different types of XSS:

Reflected: This is when malicious code is sent to the server and then reflected back to the user in the response. This can happen if the user clicks on a malicious link or enters information in a text field that is not protected.

Stored: This is when malicious code is stored in the website's database and is displayed to all users who visit that page. For example, if a hacker writes a malicious comment on a website, that comment can be shown to all users who visit that page.

DOM-based: This is when malicious code runs in the user's web browser. This can happen if the website uses JavaScript and the hacker can write code that runs in the user's browser.

It's important to be careful about the websites we visit and not click on links or enter information in text fields that don't seem secure.

Grandma if you want to lern how to practice them, in controlled environments click [here](https://zeekk3n.github.io/andrey.github.io/.hacking-notes) i'll explain how


